

## Skip links

Skip to Content

play

##  Live

Show navigation menu

## Navigation menu

  * NewsShow more news sections

    * Middle East
    * Africa
    * Asia
    * US & Canada
    * Latin America
    * Europe
    * Asia Pacific

  * Israel War on Gaza
  * Features
  * Opinion
  * Video
  * MoreShow more sections

    * Economy
    * Ukraine war
    * Coronavirus
    * Climate Crisis
    * Investigations
    * Interactives
    * In Pictures
    * Science & Technology
    * Sport
    * Podcasts

play

##  Live

Click here to searchsearch

News

# Japan earthquake death toll crosses 100

 _Hundreds of people are still missing after a magnitude 7.6 earthquake struck
Japan’s west coast on January 1._

A man looks at debris left on the streets of the city of Suzu, Ishikawa
prefecture, on January 6, 2024 [JIJI Press via AFP]

Published On 6 Jan 20246 Jan 2024

The death toll from Japan’s New Year’s Day earthquake has now exceeded 100, as
rescuers and residents have been sifting through the rubble to recover bodies.

Hopes have dimmed to find survivors following the country’s deadliest
earthquake in nearly eight years. But the authorities said on Saturday that
more than 200 people are still missing.

## Keep reading

list of 3 itemslist 1 of 3

### How devastating was Monday’s earthquake in Japan?

list 2 of 3

### Photos: Aftermath of devastating earthquake in Japan

list 3 of 3

### Japan races to find earthquake survivors five days on

end of list

The magnitude 7.6 earthquake that struck Japan’s west coast destroyed
infrastructure, leaving 23,000 homes without power in the Hokuriku region.

Sixteen further deaths were confirmed in Wajima city and Anamizu town by 1pm
(04:00 GMT) on Saturday, bringing the total to 110, the Kyodo news agency
reported, quoting the Ishikawa prefectural government and other sources.

Wajima city has recorded the highest number of deaths with 59, followed by
Suzu with 23. The disaster resulted in more than 500 injuries, at least 27 of
them serious.

Rescuers carry away the body of a victim who was retrieved from a landslide
site in the Kawashima district in the city of Anamizu, Ishikawa prefecture, on
January 6, 2024 [Toshifumi Kitamura/AFP]

“I was relaxing on New Year’s Day when the quake happened. My relatives were
all there and we were having fun,” Wajima resident Hiroyuki Hamatani, told the
AFP news agency amid charred cars and fallen telegraph poles.

“The house itself is standing but it’s far from livable now … I don’t have the
space in my mind to think about the future,” the 53-year-old said.

Four of the world’s tectonic plates meet in Japan making the country
particularly prone to earthquakes. It experiences hundreds of tremors every
year, but most cause little to no damage.

The death toll from last week’s earthquake is the highest since 2016, when
quakes in Kumamoto, southwestern Japan, killed 276 people.

In 2011, a magnitude 9 undersea earthquake triggered a massive tsunami that
wiped out entire communities and caused a meltdown at the Fukushima nuclear
plant. At least 18,500 people were killed.

## Relief operations ongoing

Thousands of soldiers were flying and trucking in water, food and medicine to
the more than 32,000 people who had evacuated to auditoriums, schools and
other facilities.

However, road disruptions and other problems have hindered the delivery of
relief supplies.

“We are doing our best to conduct rescue operations at the isolated villages …
However, the reality is that the isolation has not been resolved to the extent
that we would like,” Ishikawa governor Hiroshi Hase said on Friday.

The Yomiuri newspaper reported more than 100 landslides in the area, some
blocking essential roads.

While power is gradually returning along the coastline, water supplies remain
scarce, with damaged emergency water systems.

In an unusual gesture from nearby North Korea, leader Kim Jong Un sent a
message of condolence to Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida, the Korean
Central News Agency reported on Saturday.

Source: News Agencies

* * *

###

##

##

##

aj-logo

###

##

##

##

aj-logo

###

##

##

##

aj-logo

* * *

  * AboutShow more

    * About Us
    * Code of Ethics
    * Terms and Conditions
    * EU/EEA Regulatory Notice
    * Privacy Policy
    * Cookie Policy
    * Cookie Preferences
    * Sitemap
    * Work for us
    * HR Quality

  * ConnectShow more

    * Contact Us
    * User Accounts Help
    * Advertise with us
    * Apps
    * Newsletters
    * Channel Finder
    * TV Schedule
    * Podcasts
    * Submit a Tip

  * Our ChannelsShow more

    * Al Jazeera Arabic
    * Al Jazeera English
    * Al Jazeera Investigative Unit
    * Al Jazeera Mubasher
    * Al Jazeera Documentary
    * Al Jazeera Balkans
    * AJ+

  * Our NetworkShow more

    * Al Jazeera Centre for Studies
    * Al Jazeera Media Institute
    * Learn Arabic
    * Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights
    * Al Jazeera Forum
    * Al Jazeera Hotel Partners

Follow Al Jazeera English:

  * facebook
  * twitter
  * youtube
  * instagram-colored-outline
  * rss

© 2024 Al Jazeera Media Network

  *[ISSN]: International Standard Serial Number

