

MENU

  * About Us

## About Us

    * The Japanese Red Cross Society at a Glance
    * History
    * Organisation
    * Finance

CLOSE

  * Activities

## Activities

    * Members and Volunteers
    * International Activities
    * Domestic Disaster Response
    * Blood Program
    * Medical Services
    * Nursing Education
    * Safety Services
    * Junior Red Cross
    * Social Welfare Services

CLOSE

  * Donate
  * News
  * Emergency Relief

  * JP
  * EN

  *   *   *   * 

CLOSE

#  Report (Ver.10) : 2024 Noto Peninsula Earthquake: The Japanese Red Cross
Society's Response

2024.01.12

The Japanese Red Cross Society would like to express our sincere condolences
and sympathy toward the people affected by the massive earthquake which hit
Japan on 1 January 2024. Our relief teams have been working around the clock
to save lives, protect health and dignity of the affected people in Noto
Peninsula.

## 1\. Situation

\- On 1 January 2024 at 16:10 (Japan Standard Time), a magnitude 7.6
earthquake struck the Noto Peninsula in Ishikawa Prefecture, Japan. As the
epicenter was very shallow, large tremors were observed in many places and a
tsunami warning was issued. Since then, 1,320 aftershocks have followed the
main shock.

\- The tsunami damaged at least 100 hectares in Suzu City and Noto City. Power
and water supplies were still cut, communications were disrupted.

\- Some districts are isolated with roads cut off and food, water, blanket and
fuel, basic needs are still in short supply.

\- The quake caused fires in some cities and it is estimated that hundreds of
houses were burnt down.

\- According to the Japan Nuclear Regulation Authority, no issues have been
found with reactors at nuclear power plants in the affected area, including
the Shika nuclear power plant in Ishikawa Prefecture.

Noto Peninsula earthquake in 2024 - epicenter and severely affected areas -

## 2\. Impacts

\- The Japanese Government applied the Disaster Relief Act towards 35 cities,
11 towns and 1 village in 4 prefectures including Niigata, Toyama, Ishikawa
and Fukui in order to lead the national-level relief operations.

\- As of 15:00 on 11 January, the local government confirmed 213 deaths in
Ishikawa prefecture. On top of this, 37 people in Ishikawa prefecture remain
unaccounted for.

\- At least 737 people were injured.

\- More than 3,877 houses are reported to be collapsed/damaged, which brought
about 24,144 people remained in 415 evacuation centers.

## 3\. Japanese Red Cross Society's Response

\- The Japanese Red Cross Society (JRCS) began its response immediately after
the disaster, and its chapters in the affected areas are working with Red
Cross hospitals and Red Cross Blood Centers to assess the extent of the
damage.

\- As of 10:00 on 11 January;

(1) 25 staff members have been dispatched to the Prefectural Disaster
Prevention Headquarters to obtain the latest information and to organize
emergency relief.

(2) 60 Emergency Medical Relief Teams have been dispatched to the hospitals,
social welfare facilities, evacuation centers, etc. in Ishikawa prefecture.
The team consists of a doctor, nurses and administrators from Red Cross
hospitals all over Japan. At the moment, 28 out of 60 teams are assessing the
situation, delivering patients to the hospitals, transporting medicines and
providing mobile clinic services.

(3) 5 staff members (2 doctors and 3 coordinators) joined the assessment team
of the National Cabinet Office.

(4) 19 Disaster Medical Coordination teams have been dispatched to Ishikawa
Prefecture in order to arrange and coordinate the emergency medical operation
with other stakeholders.

(5) 10 Logistics support members have been working in Suzu-city in Ishikawa
prefecture.

(6)15,780 blankets, 1,646 sleep comfort kits, 3,400 portable toilets, 716
family emergency sets, 500 towels, 500 stockings, 50 cassette stoves, and
other relief items were distributed to the affected people. 40 partitions were
also delivered to keep privacy in the evacuation centers.

(7) 164 Red Cross Volunteers from JRCS Ishikawa, Fukui, Niigata, Nagano,
Tokyo, Aichi and Kyoto Chapters have been transporting and delivering relief
items to the affected people. They also manage the Red Cross Volunteer
Coordination Center.

Blanket©Japanese Red Cross Society

Sleeping comfort kits©Japanese Red Cross Society

Family emergency set ©Japanese Red Cross Society

Transportation of emergency relief items©Japanese Red Cross Society

Red Cross Volunteers distributing relief items (Wajima, Ishikawa) ©Japanese
Red Cross Society

Logistics support team setting up a tent ©Japanese Red Cross Society

JRCS Relief Team providing psychosocial support (Anamizu, Ishikawa)

Treatment of an injured victim (Suzu, Ishikawa)

Mobile clinic at a social welfare facility isolated by the earthquake (Suzu,
Ishikawa )  
©Japanese Red Cross Society

Mobile clinic at an evacuation center (Nanao, Ishikawa) ©Japanese Red Cross
Society

Mother and child health assistance (Wajima, Ishikawa) ©Japanese Red Cross
Society

## 4\. Useful Information (for those who lost contact with their family
members)

  * Restoring Family Links (RFL)

With its high standard of the Personal Data Protection in Japan, the Japanese
Red Cross Society(although we can provide tracing services only for those who
lost contact with their family members as a result of conflict, disaster or
other humanitarian emergencies through the Red Cross channel) **_recommends
you to reach out the respective affected prefecture of Ishikawa directly_**
that has been in close touch with each municipality and compiling then even
publishing the list of people whose safety is unknown.

Information on the 2024 Noto Peninsula Earthquake (Task Force
Headquarters/Damage Situation) | Ishikawa Prefecture (www-pref-ishikawa-lg-
jp.translate.goog)

Although the service is only available in Japanese, you also can use Disaster
Emergency Message Dial(177).

A free Wi-Fi service “00000JAPAN” is also available at this moment in the
affected area.

*Please note that it is not a secured Wi-Fi.

Given the hardship in restoring the telecommunication infrastructure across
the Peninsula, Japanese major telecommunication carriers are now providing the
Starlink service with free of charge to the evacuation center.

  * Previous

  * Home
  * Emergency Relief
  * Report (Ver.10) : 2024 Noto Peninsula Earthquake: The Japanese Red Cross Society's Response

PAGE TOP

  * ## About Us

About Us

    * The Japanese Red Cross Society at a Glance
    * History
    * Organisation
    * Finance

  * ## Activities

Activities

    * Members and Volunteers
    * International Activities
    * Domestic Disaster Response
    * Blood Program
    * Medical Services
    * Nursing Education
    * Safety Services
    * Junior Red Cross
    * Social Welfare Services

  * Donate

  * News

  * Emergency Relief

  * Contact Us
  * Media Inquiry
  * Sitemap

Copyright © 2021 Japanese Red Cross Society All rights reserved.

  *[ISSN]: International Standard Serial Number

