



  * Subscribe __

Digital Print

  *   * 

__



January 13, 2024

__



Subscribe

Digital Print

  * Noto Peninsula earthquake
  * Haneda collision
  * Taiwan Election
  * Latest News
  * Deep Dive Podcast

Today's print edition

Home Delivery

  * JAPAN __
    * Politics
    * Society
    * Crime & Legal
    * Science & Health
    * Explainer
    * History
  * WORLD __
    * Politics
    * Crime & Legal
    * Science & Health
    * Society
  * ASIA PACIFIC __
    * Politics
    * Crime & Legal
    * Science & Health
    * Social Issues
  * BUSINESS __
    * Companies
    * Economy
    * Markets
    * Tech
  * SPORTS __
    * Sumo
    * Soccer
    * Baseball
    * Basketball
    * Tennis
    * Olympics
    * More sports
  * OPINION __
    * Editorials
    * Commentary
  * LIFE __
    * Travel
    * Digital
    * Food & Drink
    * Style & Design
    * Language
    * Lifestyle
  * CULTURE __
    * Film
    * Books
    * Music
    * Art
    * TV & Streaming
    * Stage
    * Entertainment news
  * COMMUNITY __
    * Voices
    * Issues
    * How-tos
    * Our Lives

__

  *   * My Account __
  * Logout __

Subscribe for more access

JAPAN

# Strong quake prompts tsunami warning for Japan's western coast

The torii gate at Ono-Hiyoshi Shrine in Kanazawa, Ishikawa Prefecture,
collapsed after a powerful earthquake hit the area Monday. |  KYODO

By Kathleen Benoza and Yukana Inoue  
STAFF WRITERS

__SHARE

__Twitter __Facebook __LinkedIn __Email __Print

Jan 1, 2024

Japan was rocked Monday by a powerful earthquake measuring a 7 on Japan’s
shindo scale — the strongest rating — prompting tsunami warnings for the
length of the country's western coast and inflicting widespread damage.

Tsunami waves were recorded in some areas following the magnitude 7.6 quake,
which struck near Ishikawa Prefecture’s Noto Peninsula at around 4:10 p.m. It
was followed by several strong aftershocks.

At least five people have died while others were trapped in collapsed
buildings. A large-scale fire also broke out in in Wajima, Ishikawa
Prefecture, following the quake, while several other municipalities reported
collapsed houses.

Several injuries were reported, including two women who were taken to
hospitals after falling or being hit by falling objects in Awara, Fukui
Prefecture, local authorities said. A woman in her 80s in Itoigawa, Niigata
Prefecture, fell while evacuating and suffered a head injury.

In Ishikawa, approximately 32,500 homes lost power.

A man watches TV screens in Osaka showing news of a powerful earthquake that
hit the Noto Peninsula area in Ishikawa Prefecture on Monday. | KYODO

A total of more than 51,000 people in five prefectures were instructed to
evacuate, according to the Fire and Disaster Management Agency.

About 1,000 residents and others evacuated to an Air Self-Defense Force base
in Wajima, and the SDF is responding by distributing blankets, water and food,
the Defense Ministry said.

Ishikawa Gov. Hiroshi Hase asked the SDF to send members on a disaster relief
mission, according to the central government.

The quake's epicenter was in the Noto region, which is prone to major
earthquakes. Its depth was very shallow, according to the weather agency.

No abnormalities were reported at nuclear plants in the country after the
earthquake, the government said.

East Japan Railway Co. temporarily suspended operations of all Tohoku, Joetsu
and Hokuriku Shinkansen lines due to the earthquake.

Quake damage on the Noto Satoyama Kaido, a highway that runs the length of
Noto Peninsula in Ishikawa Prefecture. | JIJI

A major tsunami warning — the highest level of alert — had been issued for
Ishikawa Prefecture’s Noto Peninsula, with the weather agency warning of waves
of up to 5 meters in the area. This was later downgraded, but the entire Sea
of Japan coast remained under tsunami warnings or advisories, with waves of up
3 meters possible.

A major tsunami warning had not been issued since the March 2011 Great East
Japan Earthquake, the Meteorological Agency said.

Waves of over 1 meter are considered likely to make it difficult for people to
stand, and such tsunami can be deadly, according to the weather agency.

The tsunami warning for Ishikawa, Niigata, Toyama and Yamagata prefectures
urged people to quickly leave coastal areas, with over 1.2 meter waves
reaching the Noto Peninsula’s Wajima Port in Ishikawa at around 4:21 p.m., the
weather agency said. NHK cautioned that waves may have been higher than this
depending on the exact location.

Cracks caused by a strong earthquake are seen outside a building in Wajima,
Ishikawa Prefecture, on Monday. | KYODO

The agency said areas that experienced strong shaking could see quakes of up
to shindo 7 over the next week, especially in the next two to three days.

Speaking to reporters in the evening, Prime Minister Fumio Kishida urged
residents of the affected areas to “continue to pay close attention in case of
strong earthquakes.”

“And in areas where tsunamis are expected, I would like to request that they
evacuate as soon as possible,” he said in Tokyo.

The tsunami warnings were punctuated by several aftershocks across the Noto
Peninsula following the largest initial quake, recorded as magnitude 7.6,
according to the Meteorological Agency.

As of 5:30 p.m., agency data indicated that tremors measuring shindo 1 or
higher occurred 19 times on Monday including shindo 7 main shock and five
measuring strong 5.

Waves of 80 cm reached Toyama Prefecture at around 4:35 p.m and waves of 40
centimeters also reached the city of Kashiwazaki, in Niigata Prefecture, at
4:36 p.m. Kanazawa Port in Ishikawa experienced 40 cm waves at around 5:04
p.m., while waves were also reported in Yamagata Prefecture and Niigata’s Sado
Island.

A large-scale fire burns in Wajima, Ishikawa Prefecture on Monday after a
massive earthquake rocked the area. | KYODO

Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshimasa Hayashi told reporters at a news conference
that no abnormalities had so far been reported from nuclear power plants
across Japan. “We are still assessing human and physical damage,” he said.

The quake was also felt in Tokyo and across the Kanto area.

Jordan Allen, a news editor at The Japan Times who is normally based in Tokyo,
was in eastern Toyama Prefecture when the earthquake struck, spending New
Year’s day with family. After the first big earthquake hit, he remained seated
in the living room gauging the situation for a moment before a second quake
struck, with phone tsunami warnings and area alarms kicking in right after.

“I've lived in Japan for nine years and I've not felt anything like this
before,” he said, adding that some drinking glasses and other items had fallen
and broken around the home. He said he had not been able to confirm any
serious damage in his immediate vicinity. He added that he had heard
unconfirmed reports of traffic congestion in the city of Namerikawa, in Toyama
Prefecture, as residents attempted to drive to higher ground in mountainous
areas.

A portion of the quake damage to Onohiyoshi Shrine in Kanazawa, Ishikawa
Prefecture | JIJI

The magnitude of Monday’s quake matches that of the 1983 Sea of Japan
earthquake, in which 104 people died and 324 were injured.

The Russian government issued a tsunami warning for the western coastal region
of Sakhalin in the Far East following the earthquake, the Interfax news agency
said.

North and South Korea both issued similar alerts for their eastern coastal
areas, according to local media and authorities.

More information:

  * _Detailed information about the latest earthquakes_ _, from the Japan Meteorological Agency website_
  * An explanation of _shindo, Japan 's earthquake intensity scale_
  * A guide to _what to before, during and after an earthquake_
  * Our portal for _disaster-related information_

Staff writers Tomoko Otake, Jesse Johnson and Daniel Traylor contributed to
this report. Information from Kyodo added.

### KEYWORDS

earthquakes(https://www.japantimes.co.jp/tag/earthquakes), Noto
Peninsula(https://www.japantimes.co.jp/tag/noto-peninsula),
Ishikawa(https://www.japantimes.co.jp/tag/ishikawa),
tsunami(https://www.japantimes.co.jp/tag/tsunami), ISHIKAWA
EARTHQUAKE(https://www.japantimes.co.jp/tag/ishikawa-earthquake)

  * __
  * __
  * __

In a time of both misinformation and too much information,  
quality journalism is more crucial than ever.  
By subscribing, you can help us get the story right.

SUBSCRIBE NOW

SUBSCRIBE

##### In your social network

Stay up to date with us on your social media platform of choice.

______

##### In your inbox

Get updates, insights and more via our newsletters.

SIGN ME UP

  * products & services
  * Print subscriptions
  * Group subscriptions
  * Student subscription
  * JT Digital Archives
  * Epaper Edition
  * RSS feeds

  * help & support
  * Support
  * FAQs
  * Link policy
  * Republishing
  * Contact us

  * about us
  * Company info
  * Privacy policy
  * Link policy
  * Announcements
  * Work with us
  * Advertise with us
  * Press releases

  * our sites
  * The Japan Times Alpha
  * JT Bookclub
  * The Japan Times Jobs
  * Education In Japan
  * Classifieds
  * Public notices
  * Disaster information
  * Comfacts

  * our activities
  * Sustainable Japan
  * Satoyama Consortium
  * ESG Consortium

SUBSCRIBE

##### In your social network

Stay up to date with us on your social media platform of choice.

______

##### In your inbox

Get updates, insights and more via our newsletters.

SIGN ME UP

THE JAPAN TIMES LTD. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

__

  *[ISSN]: International Standard Serial Number

