

Skip to main content

Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with
limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a
more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer).
In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site
without styles and JavaScript.

Advertisement

  * View all journals
  * Search
  * Log in

  * Explore content
  * About the journal
  * Publish with us
  * Subscribe

  * Sign up for alerts
  * RSS feed

  1. nature
  2. news explainer
  3. article

Japan earthquakes: the science behind the deadly tremors

Download PDF

  * NEWS EXPLAINER
  * 03 January 2024
  * Correction 04 January 2024

# Japan earthquakes: the science behind the deadly tremors

A massive quake that triggered tsunamis, fires and multiple aftershocks was
the largest on the country’s west coast in more than a century.

By

  * Gemma Conroy

  1. Gemma Conroy

View author publications

You can also search for this author in PubMed  Google Scholar

  * Twitter
  * Facebook
  * Email

You have full access to this article via your institution.

Download PDF

Download PDF

Buildings in Wajima were reduced to rubble by fires that broke out after the
earthquakes.Credit: The Asahi Shimbun via Getty Images

This week, a series of powerful earthquakes struck the west coast of Japan,
killing dozens of people and reducing many buildings to rubble.

A magnitude-7.6 earthquake hit Ishikawa prefecture on the country’s main
island, Honshu, on 1 January. It was the strongest quake to occur in the
prefecture in more than a century. “It’s probably one of the largest
earthquakes on the west coast of Japan,” says Takuya Nishimura, an earthquake
scientist at Kyoto University in Japan.

The massive earthquake prompted tsunami warnings, with ocean waves reaching
more than 1 metre high in some areas along the coastline. By the following
morning, the Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA) had recorded a further 146
smaller earthquakes on Ishikawa’s Noto Peninsula, including one that the US
Geological Survey (USGS) measured at a magnitude of 6.2. The tremors have
resulted in more than 60 deaths, with reports of dozens more expected as
rescue teams search through the rubble.

## What caused the earthquake?

Japan is one of the most earthquake-prone countries in the world, because it
sits on top of four converging tectonic plates that constantly grind together.
Some 1,500 earthquakes strike the country every year, although the majority
are too mild to be felt. Most major earthquakes in Japan are caused by the
Pacific Plate off the east coast, which slides beneath another plate. This
subduction was the driving force behind Japan’s largest ever recorded
earthquake — a magnitude-9.1 quake that struck the Tohoku region in 2011 and
triggered a massive tsunami — says Yoshihiro Hiramatsu, a seismologist at
Kanazawa University in Japan.

AI predicts how many earthquake aftershocks will strike — and their strength

Ishikawa itself is no stranger to earthquakes, with more than 500 occurring
since 2020. In May 2023, the USGS measured a magnitude-6.3 earthquake that
shook the region and destroyed dozens of buildings. But these events are
underpinned by a different mechanism from quakes that happen on the eastern
side of Japan, says Adam Pascale, a seismologist at the Seismology Research
Centre in Melbourne, Australia. Instead of occurring along the boundary of a
tectonic plate, the earthquakes in Ishikawa are triggered by faults within the
plate itself, which are put under pressure when the tectonic plates push
against each other. “That stress builds up in the plate and it’s going to slip
somehow,” says Pascale.

## Why have there been so many aftershocks?

The main magnitude-7.6 earthquake probably originated in a 150-kilometre-long
fault beneath the Noto Peninsula, says Aitaro Kato, a seismologist at the
University of Tokyo. “The source area is very wide,” he says. This giant
fracture is of a type known as a reverse fault, which occurs when one slab of
rock moves on top of another. But he suspects that multiple fault ruptures
inside the plate probably triggered the aftershocks that followed the larger
earthquake.

Studies have shown1 that fluids deep inside Earth’s crust could also drive
earthquakes in Ishikawa. As these fluids well up through the crust, they can
weaken the fault zone and cause it to slip, leading to a series of aftershocks
following a main earthquake, says Hiramatsu.

## How has the country responded?

Since the 2011 Tohoku event, Japan has improved its earthquake early-warning
systems, says Kato. Shortly after the magnitude-7.6 earthquake hit Ishikawa,
the JMA issued a major tsunami warning and called on residents to evacuate to
higher ground.

But the aftershocks have made it difficult for rescue teams to retrieve people
who are trapped under the ruins of fallen buildings, and they could cause
further damage to already weakened structures, says Pascale. “That’s one of
the biggest dangers at this point,” he says.

The frequency of aftershocks is expected to decrease in the coming days, but
more will probably hit the region, says Nishimura. He adds that another
magnitude-6 or 7 earthquake is not out of the question. “We need to prepare.”

_Nature_ **625** , 228 (2024)

_doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-024-00010-1_

### Updates & Corrections

  * **Correction 04 January 2024** : This article has been amended to correct Aitaro Kato’s affiliation.

## References

  1. Kato, A. _Geophys. Res. Lett._ **51** , e2023GL106444 (2024).

Article Google Scholar

Download references

Reprints and permissions

## Related Articles

  * AI predicts how many earthquake aftershocks will strike — and their strength 

  * Earthquake-risk maps pinpoint world’s most vulnerable areas 

  * Why was the Morocco earthquake so deadly? 

  * Turkey–Syria earthquake: what scientists know 

  * Protect funding for US earthquake early-warning system 

  * What Turkey’s earthquake tells us about the science of seismic forecasting 

## Subjects

  * Seismology
  * Geology

## Latest on:

Seismology

Iceland braces for volcanic eruption: what scientists are watching

News 21 NOV 23

Deep Mars is surprisingly soft

News & Views 25 OCT 23

Evidence for a liquid silicate layer atop the Martian core

Article 25 OCT 23

Geology

Scientists drilled through 500 metres of Greenland’s ice — here’s what they
found at the bottom

News 14 DEC 23

Strange blobs in Earth’s mantle are relics of a massive collision

News 01 NOV 23

Did dust from the Chicxulub asteroid impact kill the dinosaurs?

News 30 OCT 23

##

###  Jobs

  * #### Assistant Scientist/Professor in Rare Disease Research, Sanford Research

Assistant Scientist/Professor in Rare Disease Research, Sanford Research
Sanford Research invites applications for full-time faculty at the rank of...

Sioux Falls, South Dakota

Sanford Research

  * #### 2024 Overseas Outstanding Young Scholars: NKU Invites Talents from Around the World

Sincerely invites outstanding talents at home and abroad to apply for the 2024
Overseas Outstanding Young Scholars Fund.

Tianjin, China

Nankai University

  * #### Recruitment of scientific research personnel in immunology, vaccinology and nanomedicine

Professor, Associated Professor, Assistant Professor, Post-doctoral, Research
Assistant

Shenzhen, Guangdong, China

Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced Technology (SIAT), Chinese Academy of
Sciences（CAS)

  * #### Postdoctoral positions in Quantum Nanophotonics

We are looking for highly motivated and skilled postdoctoral researchers in
integrated photonics and quantum device engineering.

Gothenburg, Sweden

Chalmers University of Technology

  * #### PhD positions in Quantum Nanophotonics

We are looking for highly motivated and skilled PhD students in integrated
photonics and quantum device engineering.

Gothenburg, Sweden

Chalmers University of Technology

You have full access to this article via your institution.

Download PDF

Download PDF

## Related Articles

  * AI predicts how many earthquake aftershocks will strike — and their strength 

  * Earthquake-risk maps pinpoint world’s most vulnerable areas 

  * Why was the Morocco earthquake so deadly? 

  * Turkey–Syria earthquake: what scientists know 

  * Protect funding for US earthquake early-warning system 

  * What Turkey’s earthquake tells us about the science of seismic forecasting 

## Subjects

  * Seismology
  * Geology

## Sign up to Nature Briefing

An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your
inbox every weekday.

Email address

Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily _Nature Briefing_ email. I agree my
information will be processed in accordance with the _Nature_ and Springer
Nature Limited Privacy Policy.

Sign up

Close banner Close

Sign up for the _Nature Briefing_ newsletter — what matters in science, free
to your inbox daily.

Email address

Sign up

I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the _Nature_ and
Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.

Close banner Close

Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox. Sign up
for Nature Briefing

## Explore content

  * Research articles 
  * News 
  * Opinion 
  * Research Analysis 
  * Careers 
  * Books & Culture 
  * Podcasts 
  * Videos 
  * Current issue 
  * Browse issues 
  * Collections 
  * Subjects 

  * Follow us on Facebook 
  * Follow us on Twitter 
  * Subscribe
  * Sign up for alerts
  * RSS feed

## About the journal

  * Journal Staff 
  * About the Editors 
  * Journal Information 
  * Our publishing models 
  * Editorial Values Statement 
  * Journal Metrics 
  * Awards 
  * Contact 
  * Editorial policies 
  * History of Nature 
  * Send a news tip 

## Publish with us

  * For Authors 
  * For Referees 
  * Language editing services 
  * Submit manuscript

## Search

Search articles by subject, keyword or author

Show results from All journals

Search

Advanced search

### Quick links

  * Explore articles by subject
  * Find a job
  * Guide to authors
  * Editorial policies

Nature ( _Nature_ )  ISSN 1476-4687 (online)  ISSN 0028-0836 (print)

## nature.com sitemap

### About Nature Portfolio

  * About us
  * Press releases
  * Press office
  * Contact us

### Discover content

  * Journals A-Z
  * Articles by subject
  * Protocol Exchange
  * Nature Index

### Publishing policies

  * Nature portfolio policies
  * Open access

### Author & Researcher services

  * Reprints & permissions
  * Research data
  * Language editing
  * Scientific editing
  * Nature Masterclasses
  * Live Expert Trainer-led workshops
  * Research Solutions

### Libraries & institutions

  * Librarian service & tools
  * Librarian portal
  * Open research
  * Recommend to library

### Advertising & partnerships

  * Advertising
  * Partnerships & Services
  * Media kits
  * Branded content

### Professional development

  * Nature Careers
  * Nature Conferences

### Regional websites

  * Nature Africa
  * Nature China
  * Nature India
  * Nature Italy
  * Nature Japan
  * Nature Korea
  * Nature Middle East

  * Privacy Policy
  * Use of cookies
  * Your privacy choices/Manage cookies 
  * Legal notice
  * Accessibility statement
  * Terms & Conditions
  * Your US state privacy rights

(C) 2024 Springer Nature Limited

  *[ISSN]: International Standard Serial Number

