## Skip links

Skip to Content

play

##  Live

Show navigation menu

## Navigation menu

  * NewsShow more news sections

    * Middle East
    * Africa
    * Asia
    * US & Canada
    * Latin America
    * Europe
    * Asia Pacific

  * Israel War on Gaza
  * Features
  * Opinion
  * Video
  * MoreShow more sections

    * Economy
    * Ukraine war
    * Coronavirus
    * Climate Crisis
    * Investigations
    * Interactives
    * In Pictures
    * Science & Technology
    * Sport
    * Podcasts

play

##  Live

Click here to searchsearch

EXPLAINER

News|Earthquakes

# How devastating was Monday’s earthquake in Japan?

 _Japan’s earthquake has killed at least 30 in Ishikawa while many people are
believed to be trapped under rubble._

Monday's earthquake has caused collapsed buildings and fires while more waves
are still expected [Kyodo via Reuters]

Published On 2 Jan 20242 Jan 2024

On Monday, a magnitude 7.6 earthquake hit Japan near the Noto Peninsula in the
Ishikawa prefecture, prompting tsunami warnings for the nine prefectures along
the west coast of the country and neighbouring areas such as South Korea. More
quakes are expected to come this week.

Japan is particularly prone to earthquakes because four of the earth’s
tectonic plates meet in the country. Japan experienced a devastating quake in
2011 with a death toll of nearly 20,000 people, with most killed by tsunami
waves, and also caused nuclear plant meltdowns in Fukushima. The disaster is
believed to have caused $220bn worth of damage.

## Keep reading

list of 3 itemslist 1 of 3

### Powerful earthquake strikes Japan, residents flee some coastal areas

list 2 of 3

### Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Japan, residents flee some coastal areas

list 3 of 3

### Japan lifts tsunami warnings but warns earthquake damage ‘widespread’

end of list

Here is what you need to know about Monday’s earthquake.

## Where and when did the earthquake occur?

  * Quakes began at around 4pm local time (07:00 GMT) on Monday. A magnitude 7.6 earthquake was reported near the Noto Peninsula in Japan’s Ishikawa prefecture. Japan is divided into 47 prefectures which are types of administrative divisions. Earthquakes measuring between 7.0 to 7.9 are considered “major” and can cause serious damage. The largest earthquake ever recorded was magnitude 9.6 in Chile in 1960.
  * The earthquake generated ocean waves about 1 metre (3 feet) high along Japan’s west coast and on the coast of neighbouring South Korea. The temblor was also felt in Japan’s capital, Tokyo, 300km (186 miles) away on the other side of the country.
  * Across nine prefectures, almost 100,000 people were evacuated and spent the night in sports halls and school gymnasiums, commonly used as evacuation centres in emergencies in Japan. These are often built with an accompanying “disaster storehouse” which contains food supplies and other essentials to support living for a period of time.
  * The Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA) issued low-level tsunami warnings for the prefectures of Niigata and Toyama and a major tsunami warning for Ishikawa that was lifted on Tuesday morning.
  * Within two hours of the major earthquake near the Noto Peninsula, the Japanese public broadcaster, NHK TV, had urged people to flee to higher ground or to get to the top of nearby buildings as quickly as possible. It was feared that floodwaters could reach as high as 5 metres (16.4 feet) in the event of a tsunami.
  * A tsunami wave around 1.2 metres (4 feet) high hit Wajima city in Ishikawa 10 minutes after the magnitude 7.6 quake occurred, while a fire sparked by the collapse of buildings engulfed houses in the area. Residents were forced to evacuate in the dark because of power outages. People were seen carrying belongings such as blankets, while others rushed out holding babies.
  * On Tuesday, JMA reported that the country had been hit by 155 earthquakes since the initial tremor on Monday.

## Is this region particularly prone to earthquakes?

Japan is one of the countries in the world most at risk from earthquakes.
Seismic activity has been simmering in the area for some time. Between
December 2020 and last month, 506 quakes with an intensity of at least 1.0
were recorded. Experts say they will not know why this more major series of
earthquakes was not anticipated until further research has been carried out.

Ishikawa, a popular tourist destination famous for its cultural heritage
sites, lies near the tectonic plate boundary between the earth’s Eurasian and
North American plates. Such areas are particularly susceptible to earthquakes
because of the movement of the plates against each other, and the stronger
shock this causes in nearby areas.

Monday’s earthquake is the strongest to have occurred in Ishikawa since 1885
when data first became available.

Monday also marks the country’s first major tsunami warning since March 2011
when a magnitude 9.0 earthquake in the Tohoku region killed more than 18,000
people and triggered nuclear plant meltdowns in Fukushima.

## How many casualties have there been so far?

At least 30 people have been killed in Ishikawa and rescue teams are still
trying to reach areas where people are feared to have been trapped under
collapsed buildings. At least 14 people have been critically injured.

“The government has identified at least six to 10 people trapped inside
buildings and [the total] may be much higher than that, considering the
government is usually quite conservative about these numbers until their
official [final tally],” said Al Jazeera correspondent Chris Gilbert,
reporting from Tokyo.

## Will there be more quakes?

JMA has warned that further quakes with a seismic intensity of 7.0 could hit
the region over the next week, particularly in the next two to three days.
There is a heightened risk of fires and landslides, the JMA said. Officials
warned residents of some areas to stay away from their homes because of the
potential danger.

The warning of a major tsunami for Ishikawa, however, was cut to an advisory-
only alert and eventually lifted on Tuesday morning. A tsunami “advisory”
indicates that significant flooding is not expected but local officials may
take some action such as closing beaches or evacuating harbours.

“The tsunami threat has now largely passed,” the Hawaii-based Pacific Tsunami
Warning Center said on Monday night.

## How much damage has the earthquake caused?

The Japanese authorities are still assessing the extent of the damage but the
quake has so far resulted in several deaths, collapsed buildings, fires in
Wajima and power outages across Ishikawa.

Almost 33,000 households remained without power in Ishikawa prefecture early
on Tuesday morning in Japan, according to information on Hokuriku Electric
Power’s website. Broadcaster NHK said most areas in the northern Noto
Peninsula were also without water.

Several highways near the epicentre were closed, while flights and bullet
train services to the area had also been suspended.

In Suzu, a coastal town of just over 5,000 households near the quake’s
epicentre, there may have been as many as 1,000 houses destroyed, according to
its mayor, Masuhiro Izumiya.

## How quickly will people trapped under rubble be rescued?

With warnings of further quakes to come, Prime Minister Fumio Kishida warned
late on Monday that efforts to rescue people trapped under collapsed buildings
would be a “race against time”.

Thousands of army personnel, firefighters and police officers from across the
country have been dispatched to the worst-hit areas of the Noto Peninsula in
the Ishikawa prefecture.

So far, rescuers have been struggling to reach the northern tip of the
peninsula because of the damaged state of the roads, while helicopter surveys
have identified a large number of fires and widespread damage to buildings and
infrastructure.

## Which nearby countries are at risk?

Russia, North and South Korea and the neighbouring island of Sakhalin have
also issued tsunami warnings.

Russia issued tsunami warnings for its far eastern cities, Vladivostok and
Nakhodka. Local authorities in Vladivostok ordered fishermen to “urgently get
back to shore”.

A tsunami wave measuring 0.67 metres (2.2 feet) high reached South Korea’s
east coast of Mukho in Gangwon province on Monday night, the country’s
meteorological agency said. Authorities in Gangwon and Samcheok city warned
residents to evacuate to higher ground.

North Korea issued warnings of tsunami waves of up to 2.08 metres (6.8 feet)
for its east coast.

Additionally, an emergency services alert on Sakhalin island near Japan said
its western coast “may be affected by tsunami waves”.

Source: Al Jazeera and news agencies

* * *

###

##

##

##

aj-logo

###

##

##

##

aj-logo

###

##

##

##

aj-logo

* * *

  * AboutShow more

    * About Us
    * Code of Ethics
    * Terms and Conditions
    * EU/EEA Regulatory Notice
    * Privacy Policy
    * Cookie Policy
    * Cookie Preferences
    * Sitemap
    * Work for us
    * HR Quality

  * ConnectShow more

    * Contact Us
    * User Accounts Help
    * Advertise with us
    * Apps
    * Newsletters
    * Channel Finder
    * TV Schedule
    * Podcasts
    * Submit a Tip

  * Our ChannelsShow more

    * Al Jazeera Arabic
    * Al Jazeera English
    * Al Jazeera Investigative Unit
    * Al Jazeera Mubasher
    * Al Jazeera Documentary
    * Al Jazeera Balkans
    * AJ+

  * Our NetworkShow more

    * Al Jazeera Centre for Studies
    * Al Jazeera Media Institute
    * Learn Arabic
    * Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights
    * Al Jazeera Forum
    * Al Jazeera Hotel Partners

Follow Al Jazeera English:

  * facebook
  * twitter
  * youtube
  * instagram-colored-outline
  * rss

© 2024 Al Jazeera Media Network

