Skip to main content

Open menu Close menu

Space Space

Search Search Space

Subscribe

RSS

All About Space Magazine

Why subscribe?

  * Subscribe this Christmas season!
  * Jam packed issues filled with the latest cutting-edge research, technology and theories delivered in an entertaining and visually stunning way, aiming to educate and inspire readers of all ages
  * Engaging articles, breathtaking images and expert knowledge
  * Issues delivered straight to your door

From$26.49

View

  * __
  * Space Exploration
  * The Universe
  * Stargazing
  * Launches & Spacecraft
  * Videos
  * The Moon
  * More ____
    * Solar System
    * Artemis
    * James Webb Space Telescope
    * Entertainment
    * Search for Life
    * Tech
    * Forums
    * Subscribe to "All about Space" magazine
    * Space.com Store
    * About Us
    * Web Notifications

Trending

  * Next Full Moon
  * Peregrine moon lander failure cause
  * Best Telescopes
  * Best Binoculars
  * Best Star Projectors
  * Space Calendar
  * Lego Star Wars deals
  * Best Drones
  * Solar System Planets
  * Night Sky Tonight

When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate
commission. Here's how it works.

  1. Earth

# Japanese earthquake on Jan. 1 shifted coastline over 800 feet, satellite
photos show

News

By Samantha Mathewson

published 11 January 2024

Satellite images captured striking changes in the coastline of Japan's Noto
Peninsula following a massive earthquake on New Year's Day.

  *   *   *   * __
  *   *   * __

__ Comments (0)

A 7.6-magnitude earthquake struck Japan on Jan. 1, 2024, causing significant
uplift in some coastal areas of the Noto Peninsula. (Image credit: Google
Earth/GSI, processed by Nahel Belgherze)

Satellite images captured striking changes in the coastline of Japan's Noto
Peninsula following a massive earthquake on New Year's Day.

A 7.6 magnitude _earthquake_ struck _Japan_ on Jan. 1 around 2:10 a.m. EST
(0710 GMT, or 4:10 p.m. local time in Japan), prompting orders for residents
to evacuate affected coastal areas that experienced significant uplift.
_Satellite_ imagery of the area before and after the quake shows that the
intense uplift extended the coastline by up to 820 feet (250 meters), which is
greater than the length of two American football fields.

Images of Japan's Noto Peninsula _shared on X_ (formerly Twitter) by Nahel
Belgherze show coastal areas where the seafloor has risen above the water,
creating newly exposed beaches. The photos capture the coastline changes after
the earthquake and tsunami had already subsided, leaving some ports completely
dry and inaccessible to boats.

 **Related:** _Astronauts photograph March 2011 Japan quake and tsunami
aftermath from space_

> The earthquake that struck Japan's Noto peninsula on Monday was so strong
> that the coastline has moved up to 250 meters offshore due to significant
> land uplift. pic.twitter.com/XpxBMLRTUUJanuary 4, 2024

See more

"During a field investigation along the northwest coast of the Noto Peninsula,
we found evidence at 10 locations, from Kaiso to Akasaki sites, of coseismic
coastal uplift related to the Noto Peninsula Earthquake (M7.6)," researchers
with the Earthquake Research Institute at the University of Tokyo said in _a
statement_ on Jan. 4.

"The pattern of estimated coseismic coastal uplift appears to be decreasing
southward from Kaiso to Akasaki," they added.

RELATED STORIES

--  Underwater volcano riding a sinking tectonic plate may have unleashed
major earthquakes in Japan

-- Satellites watch as Japan's new volcanic island continues to grow (image)

--  Scientists finally discover 'lost continent' thought to have vanished
without a trace

The area near Akasaki port also experienced nearly 14-foot-high (4.2 meters)
_tsunamis_, according to the university's field investigations that revealed
water stains on building walls.

The Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency's ( _JAXA_) Advanced Land Observing
Satellite-2 (ALOS-2) also captured the coastal uplift caused by the
earthquake. Satellite images compare the coastline from June 2023 to Jan. 2,
showing how the shoreline shifted seaward in multiple areas, including Nafune
port, Wajima city and Minazuki bay, according to _a statement_ from the
Geospatial Information Authority of Japan.

While the satellite images capture significant changes following the Jan. 1
earthquake, investigations along the coast are still ongoing, according to the
statement.

_Join our Space Forums to keep talking space on the latest missions, night sky
and more! And if you have a news tip, correction or comment, let us know at:
community@space.com._

## Get the Space.com Newsletter

Breaking space news, the latest updates on rocket launches, skywatching events
and more!

Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us
on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information
you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or
over.

Samantha Mathewson

Social Links Navigation

Contributing Writer

Samantha Mathewson joined Space.com as an intern in the summer of 2016. She
received a B.A. in Journalism and Environmental Science at the University of
New Haven, in Connecticut. Previously, her work has been published in Nature
World News. When not writing or reading about science, Samantha enjoys
traveling to new places and taking photos! You can follow her on Twitter
@Sam_Ashley13.

More about earth

Crystal-studded space rock found in the Sahara may rewrite the history of the
early solar system

Earth's core wobbles every 8.5 years, new study suggests

Latest

NASA awards another $100 million for private space stations

See more latest â–º

__ See all comments (0)

No comments yet Comment from the forums

##### Most Popular

'Missing link' supernova connects star's death to birth of black hole or
neutron star

By Robert LeaJanuary 11, 2024

Massive Mars dust storm spotted by China's Tianwen-1 probe (photos)

By Andrew JonesJanuary 11, 2024

China won't beat US Artemis astronauts to the moon, NASA chief says

By Brett TingleyJanuary 11, 2024

Axiom astronaut Peggy Whitson hangs up her flight suit -- on public display

By Robert Z. PearlmanJanuary 11, 2024

Total solar eclipse 2024: Live updates

By Daisy Dobrijevic, Brett TingleyJanuary 11, 2024

Doomed Peregrine moon lander snaps another selfie as it zooms away from Earth
(photo)

By Mike WallJanuary 10, 2024

UAE to provide airlock for NASA's moon-orbiting Gateway space station

By Andrew JonesJanuary 10, 2024

Hubble Telescope finds surprising source of brightest fast radio burst ever

By Tereza PultarovaJanuary 10, 2024

SpaceX targeting February for Starship's 3rd flight test

By Brett TingleyJanuary 10, 2024

China's 1st launch of 2024 puts 4 small weather satellites into orbit (video)

By Andrew JonesJanuary 10, 2024

Watch this self-eating rocket prototype engine consume itself then explode
(video)

By Tereza PultarovaJanuary 10, 2024

MORE FROM SPACE...

  1. 1

NASA awards another $100 million for private space stations

  2. 2

China's record-breaking Gravity-1 rocket aces amazing debut launch from ship
at sea (video)

  3. 3

SpaceX's new direct-to-cell Starlink satellites relay their 1st text messages

  4. 4

See the elusive planet Mercury at its best and brightest on Friday

  5. 5

Private Peregrine moon lander powers up lunar payloads despite propulsion
anomaly

Space is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading
digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.

  * About Us
  * Contact Future's experts
  * Terms and conditions
  * Privacy policy
  * Cookies policy
  * Accessibility Statement
  * Advertise with us
  * Web notifications
  * Careers

(C) Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036.

  *[ISSN]: International Standard Serial Number
  *[RSS]: Really Simple Syndication

